Library.md, before:

# [GoTo 2012: Introduction to NoSQL](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qI_g07C_Q5I)
#NoSQL #Databases #Design

Martin Fowler explains a difference between SQL and NoSQL, reviews a key-value, [[Document-oriented Model]], graph-oriented, column-family models and where they fit well.

___

# [A Universal ACTOR Formalism ](https://www.ijcai.org/Proceedings/73/Papers/027B.pdf)
#Concurrency #Actors

Carl Hewitt, Peter Bishop, Richard Steiger introduce the concept of [[Actor Model#Actor]] and focus on universality of their definition.

___

# [Clowns to the Left of me, Jokers to the Right — Dissecting Data Structures](https://personal.cis.strath.ac.uk/conor.mcbride/Dissect.pdf)
#Haskell #LanguageTheory #DataStructures

Conor McBride shows how to effectively implement polynomial interpreter focusing on [[Clown]] and [[Joker]].

___

# [Python Concurrency From the Ground Up](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MCs5OvhV9S4)
#Python #Concurrency 

David Beazley tells the story of concurrency in Python: threads, processes, coroutines via generators and coroutines themselves.

# [Modern Object Pascal Introduction for Programmers](https://castle-engine.io/modern_pascal)
#Pascal #Tutorial

The book which shows a modern Pascal with metaclasses, generics, getters and so on.

___

# [Things I Wish Knew Learning Haskell](https://smunix.github.io/dev.stephendiehl.com/hask/tutorial.pdf)
#Haskell #Tutorial

___

# [Category Theory For Programmers](https://bartoszmilewski.com/2014/10/28/category-theory-for-programmers-the-preface/)
#Haskell #CategoryTheory #Tutorial

Bartosz Milewski explains [[Category Theory]] concepts with Haskell and pigs 🐷🚀

___

# [Trojan Source: Invisible Vulnebarities](https://trojansource.codes/trojan-source.pdf)
#Security #Unicode #Vulnerabilities

Nicholas Barcher and Ross Anderson present the Bidi, Homoglyph attacks, and analyse how to prevent them.

___

# [Functional Pearl:  Two Can Keep a Secret, If One of Them Uses Haskell](http://www.cse.chalmers.se/~russo/publications_files/pearl-russo.pdf)
#Security #Haskell #SoftwareDevelopment #Patterns

Alejandro Russo discovers untrusted code integration with keeping secrets safe on type level using MAC monad.

___

# [Introduction to Language Theory](https://cs.lmu.edu/~ray/notes/languagetheory/)
#LanguageTheory #Automata 

# [The list of monoids pattern](https://blog.ocharles.org.uk/posts/2022-06-22-list-of-monoids-pattern.html)
#Haskell #SoftwareDevelopment #Patterns

Ollie Charles shows how to use monoids for non-boilerplate HTML generation.

___

# [Learn You a Haskell](http://learnyouahaskell.com/)
#Haskell #Tutorial 

___

# [Notes ...](https://vorpus.org/blog/notes-on-structured-concurrency-or-go-statement-considered-harmful/#go-statement-considered-harmful)

___

# [Probabilistic Functional Programming in Haskell](https://web.engr.oregonstate.edu/~erwig/papers/PFP_JFP06.pdf)
#Haskell #FunctionalProgramming #ProbabilitiesTheory

___

# [The Essence of Form Abstraction](https://homepages.inf.ed.ac.uk/slindley/papers/formlets-essence.pdf)
#Haskell #SoftwareDevelopment #Web #Patterns #FunctionalProgramming 

___

# [State in Haskell](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/research/wp-content/uploads/2016/07/state-lasc.pdf)
#Haskell #FunctionalProgramming #SoftwareDevelopment 

John Launchbury and Simon Peyton introduce the [[ST]] monad concept for safe, pure stateful computations and use it for [[Array]]s, [[Graph]]s, and [[IO]]

___

# [Crimes with Python's Pattern Matching](https://www.hillelwayne.com/post/python-abc/)
#Python #PatternMatching #Esoteric 

___

# [Modular Monolith Architecture Series](http://www.kamilgrzybek.com/design/modular-monolith-primer/)
#Design #DDD #Monolith #Microservices #SoftwareDevelopment 

Kamil Grzybek introduces to the [[Modular Monolith]] concept, its cons/pros, and compares it with [[Monolith]], [[Microservices]]

___

# [I think I understand Bounded Contexts](https://robertbasic.com/blog/i-think-i-understand-bounded-contexts/)
#Design #DDD #StrategicDesign 

Robert Basic discuss what are, and _why_ to use Bounded Contexts with healthcare example

___

# [”Everything new is well forgotten old“ bias](https://verraes.net/2021/05/its-just-like-heuristic/)
#SoftwareDevelopment #Career

Mathias Verraes explains why such bias is harmful and how to compare new ideas with old

___

# [A Survey on Reactive Programming](https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Tom-Van-Cutsem/publication/233755674_A_Survey_on_Reactive_Programming/links/5d55c7c4299bf151bad6e4de/A-Survey-on-Reactive-Programming.pdf)
#Reactivity #Haskell #FunctionalProgramming

Engineer Bainomugisha, Andoni Lombide Carreton, Tom Van Cutsem, Stijn Mostinckx, and Wolfgang De Meuter structured a big amount of information about reactivity:
* Directionality
* Laziness
* Glitch Avoidance
* Abstractions
* etc

and have analyzed some reactive languages.

Commit message:

feat: add structured concurrency resource

Library.md, after:

# [GoTo 2012: Introduction to NoSQL](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qI_g07C_Q5I)
#NoSQL #Databases #Design

Martin Fowler explains a difference between SQL and NoSQL, reviews a key-value, [[Document-oriented Model]], graph-oriented, column-family models and where they fit well.

___

# [A Universal ACTOR Formalism ](https://www.ijcai.org/Proceedings/73/Papers/027B.pdf)
#Concurrency #Actors

Carl Hewitt, Peter Bishop, Richard Steiger introduce the concept of [[Actor Model#Actor]] and focus on universality of their definition.

___

# [Clowns to the Left of me, Jokers to the Right — Dissecting Data Structures](https://personal.cis.strath.ac.uk/conor.mcbride/Dissect.pdf)
#Haskell #LanguageTheory #DataStructures

Conor McBride shows how to effectively implement polynomial interpreter focusing on [[Clown]] and [[Joker]].

___

# [Python Concurrency From the Ground Up](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MCs5OvhV9S4)
#Python #Concurrency 

David Beazley tells the story of concurrency in Python: threads, processes, coroutines via generators and coroutines themselves.

# [Modern Object Pascal Introduction for Programmers](https://castle-engine.io/modern_pascal)
#Pascal #Tutorial

The book which shows a modern Pascal with metaclasses, generics, getters and so on.

___

# [Things I Wish Knew Learning Haskell](https://smunix.github.io/dev.stephendiehl.com/hask/tutorial.pdf)
#Haskell #Tutorial

___

# [Category Theory For Programmers](https://bartoszmilewski.com/2014/10/28/category-theory-for-programmers-the-preface/)
#Haskell #CategoryTheory #Tutorial

Bartosz Milewski explains [[Category Theory]] concepts with Haskell and pigs 🐷🚀

___

# [Trojan Source: Invisible Vulnebarities](https://trojansource.codes/trojan-source.pdf)
#Security #Unicode #Vulnerabilities

Nicholas Barcher and Ross Anderson present the Bidi, Homoglyph attacks, and analyse how to prevent them.

___

# [Functional Pearl:  Two Can Keep a Secret, If One of Them Uses Haskell](http://www.cse.chalmers.se/~russo/publications_files/pearl-russo.pdf)
#Security #Haskell #SoftwareDevelopment #Patterns

Alejandro Russo discovers untrusted code integration with keeping secrets safe on type level using MAC monad.

___

# [Introduction to Language Theory](https://cs.lmu.edu/~ray/notes/languagetheory/)
#LanguageTheory #Automata 

# [The list of monoids pattern](https://blog.ocharles.org.uk/posts/2022-06-22-list-of-monoids-pattern.html)
#Haskell #SoftwareDevelopment #Patterns

Ollie Charles shows how to use monoids for non-boilerplate HTML generation.

___

# [Learn You a Haskell](http://learnyouahaskell.com/)
#Haskell #Tutorial 

___

# [Notes on  structured concurrency, or: Go statement considered harmful](https://vorpus.org/blog/notes-on-structured-concurrency-or-go-statement-considered-harmful/#go-statement-considered-harmful)
#Python #Concurrency #StructuredProgramming 

Nathaniel Smith analyses the goto statement harm in context of concurrency and introducing the [[Nursery]] pattern.

___

# [Probabilistic Functional Programming in Haskell](https://web.engr.oregonstate.edu/~erwig/papers/PFP_JFP06.pdf)
#Haskell #FunctionalProgramming #ProbabilitiesTheory

___

# [The Essence of Form Abstraction](https://homepages.inf.ed.ac.uk/slindley/papers/formlets-essence.pdf)
#Haskell #SoftwareDevelopment #Web #Patterns #FunctionalProgramming 

___

# [State in Haskell](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/research/wp-content/uploads/2016/07/state-lasc.pdf)
#Haskell #FunctionalProgramming #SoftwareDevelopment 

John Launchbury and Simon Peyton introduce the [[ST]] monad concept for safe, pure stateful computations and use it for [[Array]]s, [[Graph]]s, and [[IO]]

___

# [Crimes with Python's Pattern Matching](https://www.hillelwayne.com/post/python-abc/)
#Python #PatternMatching #Esoteric 

___

# [Modular Monolith Architecture Series](http://www.kamilgrzybek.com/design/modular-monolith-primer/)
#Design #DDD #Monolith #Microservices #SoftwareDevelopment 

Kamil Grzybek introduces to the [[Modular Monolith]] concept, its cons/pros, and compares it with [[Monolith]], [[Microservices]]

___

# [I think I understand Bounded Contexts](https://robertbasic.com/blog/i-think-i-understand-bounded-contexts/)
#Design #DDD #StrategicDesign 

Robert Basic discuss what are, and _why_ to use Bounded Contexts with healthcare example

___

# [”Everything new is well forgotten old“ bias](https://verraes.net/2021/05/its-just-like-heuristic/)
#SoftwareDevelopment #Career

Mathias Verraes explains why such bias is harmful and how to compare new ideas with old

___

# [A Survey on Reactive Programming](https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Tom-Van-Cutsem/publication/233755674_A_Survey_on_Reactive_Programming/links/5d55c7c4299bf151bad6e4de/A-Survey-on-Reactive-Programming.pdf)
#Reactivity #Haskell #FunctionalProgramming

Engineer Bainomugisha, Andoni Lombide Carreton, Tom Van Cutsem, Stijn Mostinckx, and Wolfgang De Meuter structured a big amount of information about reactivity:
* Directionality
* Laziness
* Glitch Avoidance
* Abstractions
* etc

and have analyzed some reactive languages.
